+++
date = "2015-06-30"
title = "Mutations"
+++
As a lot of developers from my generation I started out on the web. The web revolution was upon us and nothing could stop it. We desperately needed tools to work the web and make it our common home. **The blogging began.**But setting up a blog wasn't at first easy. It required some form of development knowledge and more people from different styles of life wanted to join in on the blogging. One of those people was [Matthew Charles Mullenweg](http://ma.tt/about/). A freshman at university. In 2001 b2/cafelog launches as a PHP blogging tool and in 2003 Matthew Charles Mullenweg forks it and creates the first version of [WordPress](https://codex.wordpress.org/History). The soon to be giga CMS that now runs about [23% of the worlds websites](http://w3techs.com/technologies/details/cm-wordpress/all/all).Soon the blogging was about to end and a fully fledged CMS would take it's place.But was that the intent? Did people want to serve anything else than blog posts? 23% of the internet seems to agree. But then some don't. A friend and I talked about how software can warp and mutate into something it was never intended to be. How it can take on features and functions that was never a part of the original scope. Is it necessary with plugins if you want to convey a message? Is static pages a must when trying to get a discussion going?I would say no. WordPress evolved into something different.Something not needed for blogging.Most often [feature creep](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feature_creep) is thought of as negative and in the sense of blogging platforms I tend to agree. The topic and content of the post should be the focus and instead you are provided with a bunch of features and functionality that complicates and burdens the CMS to the brink of it being a 200kg guy walking on a treadmill at the speed of 2km/h.If you stop the treadmill/development and admit your feature creep and your shaky foundation the big guy will fall to his knees and if you keep him going and keep feature creeping/feeding him he won't get any slimmer or faster. This rant spawns from I was very close to committing the same sin. I just found [Ghost](https://github.com/tryghost/Ghost). The piece of software that my blog runs on now and thought to myself, \"huh this is neat. Could I move my main website to this CMS.\".I had already planned out how I would implement static pages and a plugin function when it occurred to me I was close to repeat history and it's mistakes.Sometimes things need to be simple to be effective and to fulfill their purpose. Not needing to evolve and mutate into something monstrous.
